---
layout: "post"
title: "Stuff"
time: 09:01:54
categories: 
- technology
---
<p><a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/">Paul Graham</a> has written <a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/stuff.html">an excellent essay about "Stuff"</a>. I'm a big fan of Paul's writing, and in this article he makes two basic points. First that we tend to hold on to things for no good reason, and second that things have gotten so cheap these days that whether we'll actually use something rarely enters our minds when we buy it.</p> <p>I can totally relate to this view. I have a lot of stuff, and I can't remember where a lot of it came from. Towards the end of the essay (if you haven't read it yet go do so it now - don't worry, I'll wait for you...) he reveals that he's stopped accumulating stuff. Except books, but I can understand that.</p> <p>Now I'm not the sort of person who will stop buying stuff. I like stuff, especially gadgets, but my consideration before buying something is definitely different now. For the past 4 years I've been on a steady road out of debt which has forced me to curb what I spend, and I guess my new outlook on stuff is partly the result of that. When you have to count the pennies you think carefully before spending each one.</p> <p>Now that the debt is nearly behind me I'm looking around at all the stuff I have and trying to work out the last time I used it. In particular I'm looking at the books and DVD's I've accumulated, as well as all the gadgety-type stuff. I'm all for getting rid of most of it, but I'm not really sure how.</p> <p>In the past I've used eBay with some success, but that's altogether too much hassle for a lot of it. Most are small items, or things that are&nbsp;a hassle to post. I sold over 50 DVD's individually on eBay&nbsp;a few months back and ended up making less than 50p on most of them, and a few of them only fetched a penny so I don't see the point in doing that again.</p> <p>I've tried putting some of the books on Amazon's used items thing, but none of those have sold yet (and some are pretty cheap!!). Another option would be a car boot sale, but the last time I tried that I brought most of it home again.</p> <p>I've been told that charity shops aren't interested in books or DVD's anymore, so short of throwing them away I'm at a loss. I'm not after getting a truck-load of cash for my stuff (although it would be nice to get something back), I just want to get rid of it.</p> <p><a href="http://www.hanselman.com/blog/TheGreatGeekGadgetGiveawayGrabBagErAuction.aspx">Scott Hanselman</a> has decided to put everything he wants to get rid of in one big box and <a href="http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;item=290145914057">he's stuck it up on eBay</a>&nbsp;and it appears to be working for him. Not a bad idea - this might work for the electronic and gadgety stuff I have, not sure about books and DVD's though.</p> <p>I'd appreciate any ideas anyone has. UK-based ideas only please. I'm slowly putting together lists of what I have which I'll post as I get them finished.</p>